---
id: verification
title: Verification
---

## Overview

The [verification](verification.md) itself is several round executions of the protocol based on CPOR (also referenced as PDP - Proof of data possession), which provides the simple API to check if a [replicator](../roles/replicator.md) transfer the data block or not. All [replicators](../roles/replicator.md) check each other through selecting and sending challenges for a constant amount of randomly selected blocks to everybody. After obtaining the response to challenges [replicators](../roles/replicator.md) form their own [verification](verification.md) results on which the whole group has to agree. Concluding parity on results is done via multsignature protocol. Where the main [replicator](../roles/replicator.md) uploads its results to Blockchain, and others receive them and compare with their own decisions to approve the transaction or not. If the leader's transaction does not get the required amount of approvements (percentApprovers), the next leader is selected via iterating over the list of [replicators](../roles/replicator.md) (first to last). Leader iteration goes until consensus is reached or [verification](verification.md) fails.

When results are confirmed and some [replicators](../roles/replicator.md) are found to have faulty blocks that do not pass the [challenge](../built_in_features/challenge.md), Blockchain excludes those [replicators](../roles/replicator.md) from the contract, transfers their deposits to the [drive's](../built_in_features/drive/overview.md) account (whole deposit and for each active file), and distributes storage tokens rewards for them. [SM](../getting_started/economy.md#sm) are not included.

[Verification](verification.md) starts with confirmation of the [verification](verification.md) transaction which is sent either by the [Drive](../built_in_features/drive/overview.md) [owner](../roles/owner.md) or by any [replicator](../roles/replicator.md). This transaction goes in pair with the end [verification](verification.md) transaction. It's confirmation signals that the [verification](verification.md) is finished and all [replicators](../roles/replicator.md) agreed with the results. In case where the second transaction is not received through constant time (approx. 1 day) process, initiator will gain paid fees back. In the opposite case, [verification](verification.md) is considered finished and fees are transferred to the [Drive](../built_in_features/drive/overview.md) account becoming part of the future reward distribution.
