---
id: overview
title: SuperContracts
sidebar_label: Overview
---

## Main designation

**Super contract** ([**SC**](overview.md)) is a file generated by [SuperContract SDK](https://docs.rs/xpx-supercontracts-sdk/0.2.0/xpx_supercontracts_sdk/index.html) that contains a user algorithm which should be executed by [executors](../../roles/executor.md). Every new [SC](overview.md) is a new [multisig account](https://bcdocs.xpxsirius.io/docs/built-in-features/multisig-account/) created by the client while deploying a new [SC](overview.md). All [executors](../../roles/executor.md) perform [SC](overview.md) operations on [VM](vm.md).

**Function** (**func**) - some function that is contained in a [SC](overview.md) and invoked by name.

**Operation** is is called any one action. A function can consist of many operations. For example, one function can include two operations: create a file and move it to some dir.

Every "super file" is uploaded by the ordinary way on an earlier created [Drive](../drive/overview.md) and stored by [replicators](../../roles/replicator.md) as an ordinary file. The main difference is that the file must have the [**_\*.wat_**](sc_files.md) extension. When [SC](overview.md) starts all [replicators](../../roles/replicator.md) become [executors](../../roles/executor.md). Each of them has a virtual machine ([VM](vm.md)) that executes the [SCs](overview.md).

## Properties

### Drive

Every [SC](overview.md) should be attached to the [Drive](../drive/overview.md) where it is stored and where it is executed.

### FileHash

Since the [SC](overview.md) is the ordinary file it has a hash. To deploy a new [SC](overview.md), you should indicate this file hash.

### VM Version

When the client deploys a new [SC](overview.md) he should pass a version of [VM](vm.md) to the `deploy transaction`. It is needed when some of [executors](../../roles/executor.md) have not actual [VM](vm.md) version and they cannot execute the [SC](overview.md). In this case, this [executor](../../roles/executor.md) will not sign the `deploy transaction`.
